Lily James cannot fight the music. In the title role of 2015’s handsome Cinderella rework, her beautiful singing served as a plot point, attracting a suitor to her like a sailor drawn in by a siren’s song. She’s gotten another bump in visibility as the female lead of Baby Driver, another film fundamentally oriented around music. (The swooningly romantic scene in which she and her crush Baby share a pair of earbuds at a laundromat is already a fan-favorite.) Now she’s taken her next major role, and it’s sure to put her vocal cords through their paces.
Here we go again, more casting news about Mamma Mia!: Here We Go Again. The Hollywood Reporter has the exclusive that James has joined the cast already including returning talents Amanda Seyfried, Meryl Streep, Pierce Brosnan, and Colin Firth. Though she’s the official cast newbie, hers will still be a starring role; the new film splits its time between the present-day and extended flashbacks to the early days of Donna, and James will play the younger version of Streep’s character. And with a soundtrack featuring ABBA tracks that didn’t make the cut for the first film as well as a handful of reprises, James should start doing her vocal warm-ups now.
That said, I cannot imagine a more terrifying task for a young performer than being told, “Make us believe you could grow up to be Meryl Streep.” James can handle the singing and dancing no problem, but this could present her with an unprecedented challenge as an actress. Has she seen Kramer Vs. Kramer? Who could possibly want to be compared to that!?
During their search for a stolen vehicle Wednesday morning, Missoula Police discovered a possible forgery case. Public Information Officer Travis Welsh explains.
“Officers received information that two people who had been determined to be suspects in a previous car theft were presently under the Russell St. Bridge on the south side,” said Welsh. “An officer did go down and found the two people who had been described. He was able to identify the male and female and also determined that they were the suspects in the car theft. They were taken into custody.”
The vehicle was searched after they were taken into custody and officers dug up even more dirt on the two suspects.
“At the recovery of the vehicle, the other officers observed evidence inside that seemed to connect or suggest that the two were connected to a forgery scheme,” Welsh said. “Through continued investigation and interview, probable cause was developed and currently the two are in custody being held for felony theft and felony forgery.”
Police arrested 27-year-old Erika Jarvis and 26-year-old Chris Heaton who appeared to be in the process of forging U.S. currency. Welsh says an investigation is ongoing to discover if any counterfeit currency was actually spent in Missoula.